Kubernetes v1.33 Release Announcement Blog (#50303)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2025-04-23-Kubernetes-v1-33-Release/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.33: TBC'
date: 2025-04-23T10:30:00-08:00
draft: true
slug: kubernetes-v1-33-release
author: >
  [Kubernetes v1.33 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.33/release-team.md)
---

**Editors:** Agustina Barbetta, Aakanksha Bhende, Udi Hofesh, Ryota Sawada, Sneha Yadav

Similar to previous releases, the release of Kubernetes v1.33 introduces new stable, beta, and alpha features. The consistent delivery of high-quality releases underscores the strength of our development cycle and the vibrant support from our community.

This release consists of 64 enhancements. Of those enhancements, 24 have graduated to Stable, 20 are entering Beta, and 18 have entered in Alpha.

> 

Reviewer: I recommend:
```suggestion

There are also several notable [deprecations and removals](#deprecations-and-removals)
that in this release; make sure to read about those if you already run an older version of
Kubernetes.

```

## Release theme and logo

<Logo image size is recommended to be no more than 2160px\> {{\< figure src="/images/blog/YYYY-MM-DD-kubernetes-1.XX-release/k8s-1.XX.png" alt="Kubernetes v1.XX logo" class="release-logo" \>}}

## Features graduating to Stable

*This is a selection of some of the improvements that are now stable following the v1.33 release.*

> ### Backoff limits per index for indexed jobs

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
### Backoff limits per index for indexed Jobs
```

Reviewer 2: ### Backoff limits per index for indexed jobs

​This feature allows setting backoff limits on a per-index basis for Indexed Jobs. Traditionally, the backoffLimit parameter in Kubernetes Jobs specifies the number of retries before considering the entire Job as failed. With this enhancement, each index within an Indexed Job can have its own backoff limit, enabling more granular control over retry behaviors for individual tasks, ensuring that the failure of specific indices doesn't prematurely terminate the entire Job.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3850: Backoff Limit Per Index For Indexed Jobs](https://kep.k8s.io/3850) led by SIG Apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Backoff limits per index for indexed jobs
```

> ​This release introduces a feature that allows setting backoff limits on a per-index basis for Indexed Jobs. Traditionally, the `backoffLimit` parameter in Kubernetes Jobs specifies the number of retries before considering the entire Job as failed. With this enhancement, each index within an Indexed Job can have its own backoff limit, enabling more granular control over retry behaviors for individual tasks. This approach ensures that the failure of specific indices doesn't prematurely terminate the entire Job, allowing other indices to continue processing independently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature allows setting backoff limits on a per-index basis for Indexed Jobs. Traditionally, the backoffLimit parameter in Kubernetes Jobs specifies the number of retries before considering the entire Job as failed. With this enhancement, each index within an Indexed Job can have its own backoff limit, enabling more granular control over retry behaviors for individual tasks, ensuring that the failure of specific indices doesn't prematurely terminate the entire Job.
```

Author: There has been a few wording changes in all items, where I took some inspiration from these comments. For clarity for other reviewers, closing this for now.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3850: Backoff Limit Per Index For Indexed Jobs](https://kep.k8s.io/3850) led by SIG Apps.

### Job success policy

> Using `.spec.successPolicy`, users can specify which pod indexes must succeed (`succeededIndexes`), how many pods must succeed (`succeededCount`), or combinations of both. This feature benefits various workloads, including simulations where partial completion is sufficient and leader-worker patterns where only the leader's success determines the overall Job outcome.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature introduces the JobSuccessPolicy API, providing users with fine-grained control over when a Job is considered successful. Using .spec.successPolicy, users can specify which pod indexes must succeed (succeededIndexes), how many pods must succeed (succeededCount), or combinations of both. This feature benefits various workloads, including simulations where partial completion is sufficient and leader-worker patterns where only the leader's success determines the overall Job outcome. The CronJob concurrentPolicy is not affected by JobSuccessPolicy.
```

Author: There has been a few wording changes in all items, where I took some inspiration from these comments. For clarity for other reviewers, closing this for now.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3998: Job success/completion policy](https://kep.k8s.io/3998) led by SIG Apps.

### Bound ServiceAccount token improvements

> This enhancement introduces features such as including a unique token identifier (i.e. [JWT ID Claim, also known as JTI](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.7)) and node information within the tokens, enabling more precise validation and auditing. Additionally, it supports node-specific restrictions, ensuring that tokens are only usable on designated nodes, thereby reducing the risk of token misuse. These improvements aim to enhance the overall security posture of service account tokens within Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This enhancement introduces features such as token rotation and expiration, a unique token identifier (JTI), and node information within the tokens, enabling more precise validation and auditing. Additionally, it supports node-specific restrictions, ensuring that tokens are only usable on designated nodes, thereby reducing the risk of token misuse. These improvements aim to enhance the overall security posture of service account tokens within Kubernetes clusters.
```

Author: There has been a few wording changes in all items, where I took some inspiration from these comments. For clarity for other reviewers, closing this for now.

This work was done as part of [KEP-4193: Bound service account token improvements](https://kep.k8s.io/4193) led by SIG Auth.

> ### Add subresource support to kubectl

Reviewer: How about
```suggestion
### Subresource support in kubectl
```
?

> A `--subresource` argument is available for kubectl subcommands such as `get`, `patch`, `edit`, `apply` and `replace` to fetch and update subresources for all resources that support them. To learn more about the subresources supported, visit the [kubectl reference](/docs/reference/kubectl/conventions/#subresources).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This enhancement adds subresources as a first-class option in kubectl to allow users to work with the API in a generic fashion for easier testing and debugging. A --subresource argument is now available for kubectl subcommands such as get, patch, edit, apply, and replace to fetch and update subresources such as status, scale, resize, etc.

To learn more about the subresources supported, visit the [kubectl reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/conventions/#subresources).
```

Author: There has been a few wording changes in all items, where I took some inspiration from these comments. For clarity for other reviewers, closing this for now.

> A `--subresource` argument is available for kubectl subcommands such as `get`, `patch`, `edit`, `apply` and `replace` to fetch and update subresources for all resources that support them. To learn more about the subresources supported, visit the [kubectl reference](/docs/reference/kubectl/conventions/#subresources).

Reviewer: We use site-relative links @Udi-Hofesh

Author: These are tackled.

This work was done as part of [KEP-2590: Add subresource support to kubectl](https://kep.k8s.io/2590) led by SIG CLI.

### Multiple Service CIDRs

> This enhancement introduces a new implementation of allocation logic for Service IPs. Across the whole cluster, every Service ClusterIP must be unique and trying to create a service with a specific ClusterIP that has already been allocated will return an error. This new allocator logic uses two new API Objects: ServiceCIDR and IPAddress, allowing users to dynamically increase the number of Service IPS available by creating new ServiceCIDRs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This enhancement introduces a new implementation of allocation logic for Service IPs. Across the whole cluster, every Service ClusterIP must be unique and trying to create a service with a specific ClusterIP that has already been allocated will return an error. This new allocator logic uses two new API Objects: ServiceCIDR and IPAddress, and enables administrators to add or remove service CIDRs on-the-fly, facilitating seamless IP range expansion and supporting use cases like dual-stack networking and IP family migration.
```

Author: There has been a few wording changes in all items, where I took some inspiration from these comments. For clarity for other reviewers, closing this for now.

> 
> This enhancement introduces a new implementation of allocation logic for Service IPs. Across the whole cluster, every Service ClusterIP must be unique and trying to create a service with a specific ClusterIP that has already been allocated will return an error. This new allocator logic uses two new API Objects: ServiceCIDR and IPAddress, allowing users to dynamically increase the number of Service IPS available by creating new ServiceCIDRs.

Reviewer: How I'd write it:
```suggestion

This enhancement introduced a new implementation of allocation logic for Service IPs. Across the whole cluster, every Service of `type: ClusterIP` must have a unique IP address assigned to it.
Trying to create a Service with a specific cluster IP that has already been allocated will return an error.
The updated IP address allocator logic uses two newly stable API objects: ServiceCIDR and IPAddress.
Now generally available, these APIs allow cluster administrators to dynamically increase the number of
IP addresses available for `type: ClusterIP` Services (by creating new ServiceCIDR objects).
```

This work was done as part of [KEP-1880: Multiple Service CIDRs](https://kep.k8s.io/1880) led by SIG Network.

### `nftables` backend for kube-proxy

> The `nftables` backend for kube-proxy is now stable, adding a new implementation that significantly improves performance and scalability for Services implementation within Kubernetes clusters. For compatibility reasons, `iptables` backend will continue to be the default. Check the [migration guide](/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#migrating-from-iptables-mode-to-nftables) if you would like to try it out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The nftables backend for kube-proxy is now stable, adding a new implementation that significantly improves performance and scalability for Services implementation within Kubernetes clusters. The iptables backend, while longstanding, suffers from performance limitations due to its lack of support for incremental rule updates and linear rule processing, leading to inefficiencies as the number of Services grows. However, for compatibility reasons, iptables backend will continue to be the default. Check the [migration guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#migrating-from-iptables-mode-to-nftables) if you would like to try it out.
```

Reviewer: The original text is better @Udi-Hofesh - please see the guidance linked from https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/

This work was done as part of [KEP-3866: nftables kube-proxy backend](https://kep.k8s.io/3866) led by SIG Network.

### Topology aware routing with `trafficDistribution: PreferClose`

> This release graduates topology-aware routing and traffic distribution to GA, which would allow us to optimize service traffic in multi-zone clusters. The topology-aware hints in EndpointSlices would enable components like kube-proxy to prioritize routing traffic to endpoints within the same zone, thereby reducing latency and cross-zone data transfer costs. Building upon this, `trafficDistribution` field is added to the Service specification, with the `PreferClose` option directing traffic to the nearest available endpoints based on network topology. This configuration enhances performance and cost-efficiency by minimizing inter-zone communication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release graduates topology-aware routing and traffic distribution to GA, which allows to optimize service traffic in multi-zone clusters. The topology-aware hints in EndpointSlices would enable components like kube-proxy to prioritize routing traffic to endpoints within the same zone, thereby reducing latency and cross-zone data transfer costs. Building upon this, the trafficDistribution field is added to the Service specification, with the PreferClose option directing traffic to the nearest available endpoints based on network topology. This configuration enhances performance and cost-efficiency by minimizing inter-zone communication.
```

Reviewer: The original text is better @Udi-Hofesh - please see the guidance linked from https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/

Author: I haven't got any more feedback on this, and I think the original text is clear enough. I'll close this for now.

This work was done as part of [KEP-4444: Traffic Distribution for Services](https://kep.k8s.io/4444) and [KEP-2433: Topology Aware Routing](https://kep.k8s.io/2433) led by SIG Network.

### Options to reject non SMT-aligned workload

> This feature adds policy options to the CPU Manager, enabling it to reject workloads that do not align with Simultaneous Multithreading (SMT) configurations. This enhancement ensures that when a pod requests exclusive use of CPU cores, the CPU Manager can enforce allocation of entire core pairs (comprising primary and sibling threads) on SMT-enabled systems, thereby preventing scenarios where workloads share CPU resources in unintended ways.

Reviewer: What's the improvement here?

> This feature adds policy options to the CPU Manager, enabling it to reject workloads that do not align with Simultaneous Multithreading (SMT) configurations. This enhancement ensures that when a pod requests exclusive use of CPU cores, the CPU Manager can enforce allocation of entire core pairs (comprising primary and sibling threads) on SMT-enabled systems, thereby preventing scenarios where workloads share CPU resources in unintended ways.

Author: I believe this was a mistake, I see no suggestion in the Google Docs either. Closing.

This work was done as part of [KEP-2625: node: cpumanager: add options to reject non SMT-aligned workload](https://kep.k8s.io/2625) led by SIG Node.

> 

Reviewer 2: This KEP is missing from the PR for some reason...
```suggestion
### Sidecar containers
This feature introduces native support for sidecar containers, addressing longstanding challenges in managing auxiliary processes like logging agents, service mesh proxies, and metrics collectors within pods. This means treating sidecars as a special class of init containers with a restartPolicy set to Always, ensuring that sidecars start before application containers, remain running throughout the pod's lifecycle, and terminate automatically after the main containers exit. 
Additionally, sidecars can utilize probes (startup, readiness, liveness) to signal their operational state, and their Out-Of-Memory (OOM) score adjustments are aligned with primary containers to prevent premature termination under memory pressure. 

This work was done as part of [KEP-753: Sidecar Containers](https://kep.k8s.io/753) led by SIG Node.
```

Author: I don't know how this went missing... I'll make sure to put the original text back in first.

Reviewer 3: Are we going to have the Sidecar KEP mentioned in two places? (spotlight and KEPs going into stable?) https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/442e6edcad528139f80eaac41816d831daea9720/content/en/blog/_posts/2025-04-23-Kubernetes-v1-33-Release/index.md?plain=1#L31

Author: No, there should be just one -- this suggestion was added before I added the spotlight section. Closing this comment without any action to avoid further confusion 👍

> ### Define Pod affinity or anti-affinity using `matchLabelKeys` and `mismatchLabelKeys`

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
### Defining Pod affinity or anti-affinity using `matchLabelKeys` and `mismatchLabelKeys`
```

> Fields `matchLabelKeys` and `mismatchLabelKeys` are available in PodAffinityTerm, enabling users to finely control the scope where Pods are expected to co-exist (PodAffinity) or not (PodAntiAffinity). These new options complement the existing `labelSelector`. The newly introduced fields facilitate enhanced scheduling for versatile rolling updates, as well as isolation of services managed by tools or controllers based on global configurations.

Reviewer: Fields `matchLabelKeys` and `mismatchLabelKeys` are available in within the `affinityTerm` field of a Pod,
enabling users to finely control the scope where Pods are expected to co-exist (Affinity) or not (AntiAffinity).
These newly stable options complement the existing `labelSelector` mechanism.
The affinity fields facilitate enhanced scheduling for versatile rolling updates, as well as
isolation of services managed by tools or controllers based on global configurations.
```
The fields can't be both stable and newly added. Consider rewording per the above.

> Fields `matchLabelKeys` and `mismatchLabelKeys` are available in PodAffinityTerm, enabling users to finely control the scope where Pods are expected to co-exist (PodAffinity) or not (PodAntiAffinity). These new options complement the existing `labelSelector`. The newly introduced fields facilitate enhanced scheduling for versatile rolling updates, as well as isolation of services managed by tools or controllers based on global configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature introduces the availability of two new fields matchLabelKeys and mismatchLabelKeysin PodAffinityTerm, enabling users to finely control the scope where Pods are expected to co-exist (PodAffinity) or not (PodAntiAffinity). Users can now specify a list of label keys, and the scheduler will consider pods matching any of these keys for affinity or anti-affinity rules. This feature simplifies the configuration of complex scheduling policies, allowing for more adaptable and efficient pod placement strategies. These new options complement the existing labelSelector.
```

Reviewer: The original text is better @Udi-Hofesh - please see the guidance linked from https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/

Although I recommend the suggestion in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/50303/files#r2040688249

Author: I took Tim's suggestion, which I found easier to read 👍

This work was done as part of [KEP-3633: Introduce MatchLabelKeys to Pod Affinity and Pod Anti Affinity](https://kep.k8s.io/3633) led by SIG Scheduling.

> ### Consider Taints and Tolerations when calculating PodTopologySpread skew

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Considering taints and tolerations when calculating Pod topology sread skew
```

> This enhances `PodTopologySpread` by introducing two new fields: `nodeAffinityPolicy` and `nodeTaintsPolicy`. These fields allow users to specify whether node affinity rules and node taints should be considered when calculating pod distribution across nodes. By default, `nodeAffinityPolicy` is set to `Honor`, meaning only nodes matching the pod's node affinity or selector are included in the distribution calculation. The `nodeTaintsPolicy` defaults to `Ignore`, indicating that node taints are not considered unless specified. This enhancement provides finer control over pod placement, ensuring that pods are scheduled on nodes that meet both affinity and taint toleration requirements, thereby preventing scenarios where pods remain pending due to unsatisfied constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This enhances PodTopologySpread by introducing two new fields: nodeAffinityPolicy and nodeTaintsPolicy. These additions allow users to explicitly define how node affinity and node taints are considered when calculating pod distribution across topology domains. Previously, the scheduler considered nodes matching a pod's nodeAffinity and nodeSelector but did not account for whether the pod tolerated the node's taints, potentially leading to pods being unschedulable if they were assigned to nodes with untolerated taints. With the new policies, users can specify whether to Honor or Ignore node affinity and taints during scheduling decisions, providing finer control over pod placement and improving scheduling predictability. 

By default, nodeAffinityPolicy is set to Honor, meaning only nodes matching the pod's node affinity or selector are included in the distribution calculation. The nodeTaintsPolicy defaults to Ignore, indicating that node taints are not considered unless specified. 
```

Reviewer: The original text is better @Udi-Hofesh - please see the guidance linked from https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/

Author: There has been a few wording changes in all items, where I took some inspiration from these comments. For clarity for other reviewers, closing this for now.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3094: Take taints/tolerations into consideration when calculating PodTopologySpread skew](https://kep.k8s.io/3094) led by SIG Scheduling.

### Volume Populator

> After making beta release in v1.24, VolumePopulator is graduating to GA in this release. This introduces a way to allow users to pre-populate volumes with data from various sources, not just PVC clones or volume snapshots. The key idea is to introduce a new field, `DataSourceRef`, on PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs). This field will be more flexible than the existing `DataSource` field, allowing for custom resources (CRDs) to be used as data sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After making beta in v1.24, VolumePopulator is graduating to GA in this release. The feature introduces a way to allow users to pre-populate volumes with data from various sources, not just PVC clones or volume snapshots. The key idea is to introduce a new field, DataSourceRef, on PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs). This field will be more flexible than the existing DataSource field, allowing to reference of any Kubernetes object as a data source, facilitating the integration of custom volume populators implemented as out-of-tree controllers.

To manage these generic data sources, a new Custom Resource Definition (CRD) is introduced to register valid data source kinds, and a volume-data-source-validator controller is responsible for validating PVCs against these registered kinds.
```

Reviewer: The original text is better @Udi-Hofesh - please see the guidance linked from https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/

However, see my suggested edit: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/50303/files#r2040689120

Author: I took Tim's suggestion for this one 👍

> ### Volume Populator
> 
> After making beta release in v1.24, VolumePopulator is graduating to GA in this release. This introduces a way to allow users to pre-populate volumes with data from various sources, not just PVC clones or volume snapshots. The key idea is to introduce a new field, `DataSourceRef`, on PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs). This field will be more flexible than the existing `DataSource` field, allowing for custom resources (CRDs) to be used as data sources.
> 
> A new controller, `volume-data-source-validator`, will validate these data sources, and a new CRD, `VolumePopulator`, will allow volume populator controllers to register the types of data sources they support.
> 
> This work was done as part of [KEP-1495: Generic data populators](https://kep.k8s.io/1495) led by SIG Storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Volume populators

After making beta release in v1.24, _volume populators_ have graduated to GA in this release. This newly stable feature provides a way to allow users to pre-populate volumes with data from various sources, and not
just from PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) clones or volume snapshots.
The mechanism relies on the `dataSourceRef` field within a PersistentVolumeClaim. This field offers more flexibility than the existing `dataSource` field, and allows for custom resources to be used as data sources.

A special controller, `volume-data-source-validator`, validates these data source refernes, alongside a CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) for an API kind named VolumePopulator.
The VolumePopulator API allows volume populator controllers to register the types of data sources they support. You need to set up your cluster with the appropriate CRD in order to use volume populators.

This work was done as part of [KEP-1495: Generic data populators](https://kep.k8s.io/1495) led by SIG Storage.
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion! I was under impression that PVC and CRD don't need the clarification there, but even with acronyms fully clarified, this reads well and concise 🥰

### Always Honor PersistentVolume Reclaim Policy

> This feature addresses an issue where the Persistent Volume (PV) reclaim policy is not consistently honored, leading to potential storage resource leaks. Specifically, if a PV is deleted before its associated Persistent Volume Claim (PVC), the "Delete" reclaim policy may not be executed, leaving underlying storage assets intact. To mitigate this, the proposal introduces finalizers to PVs, ensuring that the reclaim policy is enforced regardless of the deletion sequence. This enhancement prevents unintended retention of storage resources and maintains consistency in PV lifecycle management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature addresses an issue where the persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy is not consistently honored, leading to potential storage resource leaks. Specifically, if a PV is deleted before its associated Persistent Volume Claim (PVC), the "Delete" reclaim policy may not be executed,leading to orphaned storage resources in the backend infrastructure. . To mitigate this, the proposal introduces finalizers to PVs, ensuring that the reclaim policy is enforced regardless of the deletion sequence. This mechanism applies to both CSI-provisioned volumes and in-tree plugin volumes, ensuring that the reclaim policy is enforced and mitigating the risk of resource leaks.
```

Reviewer: Folks, please try to follow the [style guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/). For example, no spaces in API kinds (PersistentVolumeClaim not PersistentVolumeClaim)

Author: Sorry, I should have caught this! 🙇
I'll fix this up in a separate commit

Author: There has been a few wording changes in all items, where I took some inspiration from these comments. For clarity for other reviewers, closing this for now.

This feature improves queue scheduling behavior by popping pods from the backoffQ, which are not backed off due to errors, when the activeQ is empty. The previous behaviour is to become idle even when the activeQ is empty, and this enhancement can improve the scheduling efficiency.

This work was done as part of [KEP-5142: Pop pod from backoffQ when activeQ is empty](https://kep.k8s.io/5142) led by SIG Scheduling.

### Asynchronous preemption in the Kubernetes Scheduler

Preemption ensures higher-priority pods get the resources they need by evicting lower-priority ones. Asynchronous Preemption, introduced in v1.32 as alpha, promotes to beta in v1.33. With this enhancement, heavy operations like API calls to delete pods are processed in parallel, allowing the scheduler to continue scheduling other pods without delays. This improvement is particularly beneficial in clusters with high Pod churn or frequent scheduling failures, ensuring a more efficient and resilient scheduling process.

This work was done as part of [KEP-4832: Asynchronous preemption in the scheduler](https://kep.k8s.io/4832) led by SIG Scheduling.

> ### ClusterTrustBundles (previously Trust Anchor Sets)

Reviewer: I recommend
```suggestion
### ClusterTrustBundles
```

Author: This was based on the KEP Issue's title, but the KEP document does not have the "Trust Anchor Sets" mentioned anymore, so will take your suggestion which is less confusing indeed 👍

ClusterTrustBundle, a cluster-scoped resource designed for holding X.509 trust anchors (root certificates), graduates to beta in v1.33. This resource makes it easier for in-cluster certificate signers to publish and communicate X.509 trust anchors to cluster workloads.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3257: ClusterTrustBundles (previously Trust Anchor Sets)](https://kep.k8s.io/3257) led by SIG Auth.

### Fine-grained SupplementalGroups control

> SupplementalGroupsPolicy, introduced in v1.31, graduates to beta in v1.33 and gets enabled by default. The SupplementalGroupsPolicy field in Pod's Security Context offers two options: the default Merge policy maintains backward compatibility by combining specified groups with those from the container image's `/etc/group` file, while the new Strict policy applies only to explicitly defined groups. This feature addresses security concerns where implicit group memberships from container images could lead to unintended file access permissions and bypass policy controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Introduced in v1.31, this feature graduates to beta in v1.33 and is now enabled by default. Provided that your cluster has the `SupplementalGroupsPolicy` fearture gate
enabled, the `supplementalGroupsPolicy` field within a Pod's `securityContext` offers two options:
the default Merge policy maintains backward compatibility by combining specified groups with those from the container image's `/etc/group` file, while the new Strict policy applies only to explicitly defined groups.

This enhancement addresses security concerns where implicit group memberships from container images could lead to unintended file access permissions and bypass policy controls.
```

This work was done as part of [KEP-4265: add ProcMount option](https://kep.k8s.io/4265) led by SIG Node.

### In-place resource resize for vertical scaling of Pods

When provisioning a Pod, you can use various resources such as Deployment, StatefulSet, etc. Scalability requirements may need horizontal scaling by updating the Pod replica count, or vertical scaling by updating resources allocated to Pod’s container(s). Before this enhancement, container resources defined in a Pod's `spec` were immutable, and updating any of these details within a Pod template would trigger Pod replacement.

But what if you could dynamically update the resource configuration for your existing Pods without restarting them?

> The [KEP-1287](https://kep.k8s.io/1287) is precisely to allow such in-place Pod updates. It opens up various possibilities of vertical scale-up for stateful processes without any downtime, seamless scale-down when the traffic is low, and even allocating larger resources during startup that is eventually reduced once the initial setup is complete. This was released as alpha in v1.27, and is expected to land as beta in v1.33.

Reviewer: **MUST FIX**

In a release announcement we are expected to know what has graduated.
```suggestion
The [KEP-1287](https://kep.k8s.io/1287) is precisely to allow such in-place Pod updates.
It opens up various possibilities of vertical scale-up for stateful processes without any downtime,
seamless scale-down when the traffic is low, and even allocating larger resources during startup
that is eventually reduced once the initial setup is complete.
This was released as alpha in v1.27, and has graduated to beta in v1.33
```

Author: Thanks for the catch, this was taken from the mid cycle blog. Sorry this went completely missed, and your suggestion makes perfect sense.

This work was done as part of [KEP-1287: In-Place Update of Pod Resources](https://kep.k8s.io/1287) led by SIG Node and SIG Autoscaling.

### CPUManager policy to distribute CPUs across NUMA nodes

This feature adds a new policy option for the CPU Manager to distribute CPUs across Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) nodes, rather than concentrating them on a single node. It aims to optimize CPU resource allocation by balancing workloads across multiple NUMA nodes, thereby improving performance and resource utilization in multi-NUMA systems.

This work was done as part of [KEP-2902: Add CPUManager policy option to distribute CPUs across NUMA nodes instead of packing them](https://kep.k8s.io/2902) led by SIG Node.

> ### Introducing Sleep Action for PreStop Hook

Reviewer: AIUI the `PodLifecycleSleepAction` feature gate is already beta, so this is a very minor change from v1.32:

```suggestion
### Zero-second sleeps for container PreStop hooks
```

> This feature introduces a `Sleep` action for the `PreStop` lifecycle hook in Kubernetes, allowing containers to pause for a specified duration before termination. This provides a straightforward method to delay container shutdown, facilitating tasks such as connection draining or cleanup operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes 1.29 introduced a Sleep action for the `preStop` lifecycle hook in Pods, allowing containers to pause for a specified duration before termination.
This provides a straightforward method to delay container shutdown, facilitating tasks such as connection draining or cleanup operations.
```

> The `Sleep` action in the `PreStop` hook can also accept a zero-second duration. This allows for defining a no-op `PreStop` hook, which can be useful in scenarios where a `PreStop` hook is required but no delay is desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sleep action in a `preStop` hook can also accept a zero-second duration, and this ability is now beta. This allows for defining a no-op `preStop` hook, which can be useful in scenarios where a `preStop` hook is required but no delay is desired.
```

Author: Sorry I thought I took this code hunk, but somehow missed it. I made the same change with a95ff5103f.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3960: Introducing Sleep Action for PreStop Hook](https://kep.k8s.io/3960) and [KEP-4818: Allow zero value for Sleep Action of PreStop Hook](https://kep.k8s.io/4818) led by SIG Node.

> ### Declarative Validation of Kubernetes-Native Types with validation-gen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Declarative validation of Kubernetes-native types
```

Author: I thought I fixed all the casing... Sorry this fell through, and thanks for the catch!

> This feature enhances the validation of Kubernetes native types by introducing `validation-gen`, a tool for generating declarative validation rules. The goal is to improve the robustness and maintainability of API validations by enabling developers to specify validation constraints declaratively, reducing manual coding errors and ensuring consistency across the codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behind the scenes, the internals of Kubernetes are starting to use a new mechanism
for validating objects and changes to objects.
Kubernetes v1.33 introduces `validation-gen`, an internal tool that Kubernetes
contributors use for generating
declarative validation rules. The overall goal is to improve the robustness and maintainability of API validations
by enabling developers to specify validation constraints declaratively, reducing manual coding errors
and ensuring consistency across the codebase.
```
?

Author: Thanks, I like that preface to clarify how this isn't so much about user facing change.

This work was done as part of [KEP-5073: Declarative Validation Of Kubernetes Native Types With validation-gen](https://kep.k8s.io/5073) led by SIG API Machinery.

## New features in Alpha

*This is a selection of some of the improvements that are now alpha following the v1.33 release.*

> ### Configurable tolerance for Horizontal Pod Autoscalers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configurable tolerance for HorizontalPodAutoscalers
```

> This feature introduces configurable tolerance for Horizontal Pod Autoscalers to dampen scaling reactions to small metric variations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature introduces configurable tolerance for HorizontalPodAutoscalers to dampen scaling reactions to small metric variations.
```

This work was done as a part of [KEP-4951: Configurable tolerance for Horizontal Pod Autoscalers](https://kep.k8s.io/4951) led by SIG Autoscaling.

### Configurable container restart delay

Introduced as alpha1 in v1.32, this feature provides a set of kubelet level configurations to fine-tune how CrashLoopBackOff is handled.

> This work was done as part of [KEP-4603: Tune CrashLoopBackOff](https://kep.k8s.io/4603) led by SIG Node.

Reviewer: Erm, are we sure this is a feature newly alpha?

Author: Looking at the KEP enhancement tracking, I can confirm this is alpha2. In the [release highlight provided by SIG Node](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/2734#discussioncomment-12618758) mentions this is graduating to beta, but you can see the [alpha tracking in the issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4603#issuecomment-2636403113).

We could adjust the wording to clarify what has changed from alpha1, though. I'll look into that.

Reviewer 3: I think `ReduceDefaultCrashLoopBackoffDecay` was added in v1.33: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/130711

Author: Resolving this one as it does capture the feature state accurately; this was also provided as the release highlight from the SIG, and we would like to keep it in. (This was not mentioned in v1.32 release announcement AFAICT)

> ### Custom Container Stop Signals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Custom container stop signals
``

> Before Kubernetes v1.33, stop signals could only be set in container image definitions (for example, via STOPSIGNAL instruction), requiring additional image builds to modify termination behavior. By enabling the `ContainerStopSignals` feature gate in Kubernetes v1.33, users can now define custom stop signals directly in Pod specifications. The stop signal is defined in the container's `lifecycle.stopSignal` field and requires the Pod's `spec.os.name` field to be present. If unspecified, containers fall back to the image-defined signal or the container runtime default (typically SIGTERM).

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
Before Kubernetes v1.33, stop signals could only be set in container image definitions (for example, via the `StopSignal` configuration field in the image metatadata).
If you wanted to modify termination behavior, you needed to build a custom container imnage. By enabling the `ContainerStopSignals` feature gate in Kubernetes v1.33, you can now define custom stop signals directly within Pod specifications.
The stop signal is defined in the container's `lifecycle.stopSignal` field and requires the Pod's `spec.os.name` field to be present.
If unspecified, containers fall back to the image-defined stop signal where present, or the container runtime default otherwise (for Linux, this is typically SIGTERM).
```

Author: I like the full clarity here, I'm taking your suggestion!

This work was done as part of [KEP-4960: Container Stop Signals](https://kep.k8s.io/4960) led by SIG Node.

> ### DRA Enhancements Galore!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### DRA enhancements galore!
```

The following are all the alpha DRA feature gates introduced in v1.33:

* Similar to Node taints, by enabling the `DRADeviceTaints` feature gate, devices support taints and tolerations. An admin or a control plane component can taint devices to limit their usage. Scheduling of pods which depend on those devices can be paused while a taint exists and/or pods using a tainted device can be evicted.
* By enabling the feature gate `DRAPrioritizedList`, DeviceRequests get a new field named `firstAvailable`. This field is an ordered list that allows the user to specify that a request may be satisfied in different ways, including allocating nothing at all if some specific hardware is not available.
* With feature gate `DRAAdminAccess` enabled, only users authorized to create ResourceClaim or ResourceClaimTemplate objects in namespaces labeled with `resource.k8s.io/admin-access: "true"` can use the `adminAccess` field. This ensures that non-admin users cannot misuse the `adminAccess` feature.

> * Lastly, devices represented in DRA don't necessarily have to be a single unit connected to a single machine. By enabling the `DRAPartitionableDevices` feature gate, drivers can advertise multiple physical devices connected to multiple machines. The Kubernetes scheduler can partition devices on-demand to meet workload needs and increase resource utilization.

Reviewer 4: Addressing debt we had in our initial draft, I believe this reflects [the highlight provided by SIG/WG](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/2734#discussioncomment-12606732) better
```suggestion
* While it has been possible to consume device partitions since v1.31, vendors had to pre-partition devices and advertise them accordingly. By enabling the `DRAPartitionableDevices` feature gate in v1.33, device vendors can advertise multiple partitions, including overlapping ones. The Kubernetes scheduler will choose the partition based on workload requests, and prevent allocation of conflicting partitions simultaneously. This feature gives vendors the ability to dynamically create partitions at allocation time. The allocation and dynamic partitioning are automatic and transparent to users, enabling improved resource utilization.
```

Author: Thanks Agus! I think this reads better, taking your suggestion as is for now 👍

This feature allows users to ensure that kubelet requires an image pull auth check for each new set of credentials, regardless of whether the image is already present on the node.

This work was done as part of [KEP-2535: Ensure secret pulled images](https://kep.k8s.io/2535) led by SIG Auth.

### Node topology labels to be made available via downward API

This feature enables Node topology labels to be exposed via downward API. There is a workaround of using init container to query the Kubernetes API for the underlying node, and this change will simplify access to topology information, allowing more fine grained topology-aware placement for workloads sensitive to communication latency.

This work was done as part of [KEP-4742: Expose Node labels via downward API](https://kep.k8s.io/4742) led by SIG Node.

### Better pod status with generation and observed generation

Before this change, the `metadata.generation` field was unused in pods. Along with extending to support `metadata.generation`, this feature will introduce `status.observedGeneration` to provide clearer pod status.

This work was done as part of [KEP-5067: Pod Generation](https://kep.k8s.io/5067) led by SIG Node.

> ### Support split L3 cache architecture with kubelet’s CPU Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Support for split level 3 cache architecture with kubelet’s CPU Manager
```

* [Always Honor PersistentVolume Reclaim Policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2644)
* [nftables kube-proxy backend](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3866)
* [Deprecate status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion field](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4004)
* [Add subresource support to kubectl](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2590)
* [Backoff Limit Per Index For Indexed Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3850)
* [Job success/completion policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3998)
* [Sidecar Containers](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/753)
* [CRD Validation Ratcheting](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4008)
* [node: cpumanager: add options to reject non SMT-aligned workload](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2625)
* [Traffic Distribution for Services](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4444)
* [Recursive Read-only (RRO) mounts](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3857)

### Deprecations and removals

> As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. See the Kubernetes [deprecation and removal policy](http:///docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for more details on this process. Many of these deprecations and removals were announced in the [Deprecations and Removals blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/03/26/kubernetes-v1-33-upcoming-changes/).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. See the Kubernetes [deprecation and removal policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for more details on this process. Many of these deprecations and removals were announced in the [Deprecations and Removals blog](/blog/2025/03/26/kubernetes-v1-33-upcoming-changes/).
```

#### Deprecation of the stable Endpoints API

The [EndpointSlices](/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/) API has been stable since v1.21, which effectively replaced the original Endpoints API. While the original Endpoints API was simple and straightforward, it also posed some challenges when scaling to large numbers of network endpoints. The EndpointSlices API has introduced new features such as dual-stack networking, making the original Endpoints API ready for deprecation.

This deprecation only impacts those who use the Endpoints API directly from workloads or scripts; these users should migrate to use EndpointSlices instead. There will be a dedicated blog post with more details on the deprecation implications and migration plans.

You can find more in [KEP-4974: Deprecate v1.Endpoints](https://kep.k8s.io/4974).

#### Removal of kube-proxy version information in node status

> Following its deprecation in v1.31, as highlighted in the [release announcement](/blog/2024/07/19/kubernetes-1-31-upcoming-changes/#deprecation-of-status-nodeinfo-kubeproxyversion-field-for-nodes-kep-4004-https-github-com-kubernetes-enhancements-issues-4004), the `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field will be removed in v1.33. This field was set by kubelet, but its value was not consistently accurate. As it has been disabled by default since v1.31, the v1.33 release will remove this field entirely.

Reviewer: At publication time, the release will have happened
```suggestion
Following its deprecation in v1.31, as highlighted in the v1.31 [release announcement](/blog/2024/07/19/kubernetes-1-31-upcoming-changes/#deprecation-of-status-nodeinfo-kubeproxyversion-field-for-nodes-kep-4004-https-github-com-kubernetes-enhancements-issues-4004),
the `.status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field for Nodes was removed in v1.33.

This field was set by kubelet, but its value was not consistently accurate.
As it has been disabled by default since v1.31, the v1.33 release has removed this field entirely.
```

Author: Absolutely, I simply took from the mid cycle, but should have adjusted the content. Sorry!

You can find more in [KEP-4004: Deprecate status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion field](https://kep.k8s.io/4004).

#### Removal of host network support for Windows pods

Windows Pod networking aimed to achieve feature parity with Linux and provide better cluster density by allowing containers to use the Node’s networking namespace.
The original implementation landed as alpha with v1.26, but as it faced unexpected containerd behaviours,
and alternative solutions were available, the Kubernetes project has decided to withdraw the associated

> KEP. We're expecting to see support fully removed in v1.33.

Reviewer: **MUST FIX**

In release notes, we should avoid speculating about what might be in the release.
```suggestion
KEP. Support was fully removed in v1.33.
```

Author: Another one from the mid cycle blog wording. Sorry, this should have been caught! 😱

> Please note that this does not affect [HostProcess containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/create-hostprocess-pod/), which provides host network as well as host level access. This withdrawal was about only giving the host network, which was never stable due to technical limitations with Windows networking logic.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Please note that this does not affect [HostProcess containers](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/create-hostprocess-pod/), which provides host network as well as host level access. This withdrawal was about only giving the host network, which was never stable due to technical limitations with Windows networking logic.
```

You can find more in [KEP-3503: Host network support for Windows pods](https://kep.k8s.io/3503).

### Release notes

> Check out the full details of the Kubernetes v1.33 release in our [release notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.XX.md).

Reviewer 5: The changelog file already exists in k/k.

```suggestion
Check out the full details of the Kubernetes v1.33 release in our [release notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md).
```

Author: Oh I'm sure I have updated this at some point, somehow got reverted... Sorry, and thanks for the catch!

### Availability

> Kubernetes v1.33 is available for download on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.XX.0) or on the [Kubernetes download page](http:///releases/download/).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Kubernetes v1.33 is available for download on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.33.0) or on the [Kubernetes download page](/releases/download/).
```

> To get started with Kubernetes, check out these [interactive tutorials](http:///docs/tutorials/) or run local Kubernetes clusters using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/). You can also easily install v1.33 using [kubeadm](http:///docs/setup/independent/create-cluster-kubeadm/).

Reviewer 5: 💭 The word 'interactive' could be removed too since we no longer have interactive tutorials post-Katacoda [removal](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/02/14/kubernetes-katacoda-tutorials-stop-from-2023-03-31/).

```suggestion
To get started with Kubernetes, check out these [interactive tutorials](/docs/tutorials/) or run local Kubernetes clusters using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/). You can also easily install v1.33 using [kubeadm](/docs/setup/independent/create-cluster-kubeadm/).
```

Reviewer: Also, `/docs/setup/independent/create-cluster-kubeadm/` has been superseded; it's now
`/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/`.

Author: Thanks for the info, I wasn't aware of this! I will take Dipesh's suggestion for now, and will correct the link as Tim suggested separately.

> ### Release Team

Reviewer: Per blog guidelines:
```suggestion
### Release team
```

### Project Velocity

The CNCF K8s [DevStats](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/11/companies-contributing-in-repository-groups?orgId=1&var-period=m&var-repogroup_name=All) project aggregates several interesting data points related to the velocity of Kubernetes and various sub-projects. This includes everything from individual contributions to the number of companies contributing and illustrates the depth and breadth of effort that goes into evolving this ecosystem.

> In the v1.33 release cycle, which spanned 15 weeks from January 13 to April 23, 2025, we can see contributions from as many as 121 different companies and 570 individuals to Kubernetes alone (as of writing, a few weeks before the release date). In the wider cloud native ecosystem, the figure goes up to 435 companies counting 2400 total contributors. You can find the data source in [this dashboard](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/11/companies-contributing-in-repository-groups?orgId=1&var-period=d28&var-repogroup_name=All&var-repo_name=kubernetes%2Fkubernetes&from=1736755200000&to=1745477999000). Compared to the [velocity data from previous release v1.32](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2024/12/11/kubernetes-v1-32-release/#project-velocity), we can see a similar number of contributions coming from companies and individuals, indicating strong interest and engagement seen in the community.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In the v1.33 release cycle, which spanned 15 weeks from January 13 to April 23, 2025, we can see contributions from as many as 121 different companies and 570 individuals to Kubernetes alone (as of writing, a few weeks before the release date). In the wider cloud native ecosystem, the figure goes up to 435 companies counting 2400 total contributors. You can find the data source in [this dashboard](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/11/companies-contributing-in-repository-groups?orgId=1&var-period=d28&var-repogroup_name=All&var-repo_name=kubernetes%2Fkubernetes&from=1736755200000&to=1745477999000). Compared to the [velocity data from previous release v1.32](/blog/2024/12/11/kubernetes-v1-32-release/#project-velocity), we can see a similar number of contributions coming from companies and individuals, indicating strong interest and engagement seen in the community.
```

When provisioning a Pod, you can use various resources such as Deployment, StatefulSet, etc. Scalability requirements may need horizontal scaling by updating the Pod replica count, or vertical scaling by updating resources allocated to Pod’s container(s). Before this enhancement, container resources defined in a Pod's `spec` were immutable, and updating any of these details within a Pod template would trigger Pod replacement.

But what if you could dynamically update the resource configuration for your existing Pods without restarting them?

The [KEP-1287](https://kep.k8s.io/1287) is precisely to allow such in-place Pod updates. It was released as alpha in v1.27, and has graduated to beta in v1.33. This opens up various possibilities of vertical scale-up for stateful processes without any downtime,
seamless scale-down when the traffic is low, and even allocating larger resources during startup,
which can then be reduced once the initial setup is complete.

This work was done as part of [KEP-1287: In-Place Update of Pod Resources](https://kep.k8s.io/1287) led by SIG Node and SIG Autoscaling.

### Alpha: New configuration option for kubectl with `.kuberc` for user preferences

> `kubectl` introduces an entirely new opt-in configuration file `.kuberc` for user preferences, allowing users to manage cluster credentials and host information separately. During the alpha stage, users can enable this by setting the environment variable of `KUBECTL_KUBERC=true` set, along with the `.kuberc` configuration file, which is under `~/.kube/kuberc` by default. This can also be run by using the argument of `--kuberc`, for example: `kubectl --kuberc /var/kube/rc`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`kubectl` introduces an entirely new opt-in configuration file `.kuberc` for user preferences, allowing users to manage cluster credentials and host information separately. During the alpha stage, users can enable this by setting the environment variable of `KUBECTL_KUBERC=true`, along with the `.kuberc` configuration file, which is under `~/.kube/kuberc` by default. This can also be run by using the argument of `--kuberc`, for example: `kubectl --kuberc /var/kube/rc`.
```

This work was done as part of [KEP-2590: Add subresource support to kubectl](https://kep.k8s.io/2590) led by SIG CLI.

### Multiple Service CIDRs

This enhancement introduced a new implementation of allocation logic for Service IPs. Across the whole cluster, every Service of `type: ClusterIP` must have a unique IP address assigned to it.
Trying to create a Service with a specific cluster IP that has already been allocated will return an error.
The updated IP address allocator logic uses two newly stable API objects: `ServiceCIDR` and `IPAddress`.
Now generally available, these APIs allow cluster administrators to dynamically increase the number of
IP addresses available for `type: ClusterIP` Services (by creating new ServiceCIDR objects).

This work was done as part of [KEP-1880: Multiple Service CIDRs](https://kep.k8s.io/1880) led by SIG Network.

### `nftables` backend for kube-proxy

> The `nftables` backend for kube-proxy is now stable, adding a new implementation that significantly improves performance and scalability for Services implementation within Kubernetes clusters. For compatibility reasons, `iptables` remains to be the default on Linux nodes. Check the [migration guide](/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#migrating-from-iptables-mode-to-nftables) if you would like to try it out.

Reviewer 3: [nit] 
```suggestion
The `nftables` backend for kube-proxy is now stable, adding a new implementation that significantly improves performance and scalability for Services implementation within Kubernetes clusters. For compatibility reasons, `iptables` remains the default on Linux nodes. Check the [migration guide](/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#migrating-from-iptables-mode-to-nftables) if you would like to try it out.
```

This work was done as part of [KEP-2644: Always Honor PersistentVolume Reclaim Policy](https://kep.k8s.io/2644) led by SIG Storage.

## New features in Beta

*This is a selection of some of the improvements that are now beta following the v1.33 release.*

### Support for Direct Service Return (DSR) in Windows kube-proxy

DSR provides performance optimizations by allowing the return traffic routed through load balancers to bypass the load balancer and respond directly to the client; reducing load on the load balancer and also reducing overall latency. For information on DSR on Windows, read [Direct Server Return (DSR) in a nutshell](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/networkingblog/direct-server-return-dsr-in-a-nutshell/693710).

Initially introduced in v1.14, support for DSR has been promoted to beta by SIG Windows as part of [KEP-5100: Support for Direct Service Return (DSR) and overlay networking in Windows kube-proxy](https://kep.k8s.io/5100).

> 

Reviewer 4: Adding the DRA highlights we are missing, all related to KEP-4381
```suggestion

### Structured parameter support
While structured parameter support continues as a beta feature in Kubernetes v1.33, this core part of Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) has seen significant improvements. A new v1beta2 version simplifies the `resource.k8s.io` API, and regular users with the namespaced cluster `edit` role can now use DRA.
The `kubelet` now includes seamless upgrade support, enabling drivers deployed as DaemonSets to use a rolling update mechanism. For DRA implementations, this prevents the deletion and re-creation of ResourceSlices, allowing them to remain unchanged during upgrades. Additionally, a 30-second grace period has been introduced before the `kubelet` cleans up after unregistering a driver, providing better support for drivers that do not use rolling updates.

This work was done as part of [KEP-4381: DRA: structured parameters](https://kep.k8s.io/4381) by WG Device Management, a cross-functional team including SIG Node, SIG Scheduling, and SIG Autoscaling.
```

Author: Thanks so much for this, Agus!

### Asynchronous preemption in the Kubernetes Scheduler

Preemption ensures higher-priority pods get the resources they need by evicting lower-priority ones. Asynchronous Preemption, introduced in v1.32 as alpha, has graduated to beta in v1.33. With this enhancement, heavy operations such as API calls to delete pods are processed in parallel, allowing the scheduler to continue scheduling other pods without delays. This improvement is particularly beneficial in clusters with high Pod churn or frequent scheduling failures, ensuring a more efficient and resilient scheduling process.

This work was done as part of [KEP-4832: Asynchronous preemption in the scheduler](https://kep.k8s.io/4832) led by SIG Scheduling.

### ClusterTrustBundles

ClusterTrustBundle, a cluster-scoped resource designed for holding X.509 trust anchors (root certificates), has graduated to beta in v1.33. This API makes it easier for in-cluster certificate signers to publish and communicate X.509 trust anchors to cluster workloads.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3257: ClusterTrustBundles (previously Trust Anchor Sets)](https://kep.k8s.io/3257) led by SIG Auth.

### Fine-grained SupplementalGroups control

> Introduced in v1.31, this feature graduates to beta in v1.33 and is now enabled by default. Provided that your cluster has the `SupplementalGroupsPolicy` fearture gate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Introduced in v1.31, this feature graduates to beta in v1.33 and is now enabled by default. Provided that your cluster has the `SupplementalGroupsPolicy` feature gate
```

enabled, the `supplementalGroupsPolicy` field within a Pod's `securityContext` offers two options:
the default Merge policy maintains backward compatibility by combining specified groups with those from the container image's `/etc/group` file, whereas the new Strict policy applies only to explicitly defined groups.

This enhancement helps to address security concerns where implicit group memberships from container images could lead to unintended file access permissions and bypass policy controls.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3619: Fine-grained SupplementalGroups control](https://kep.k8s.io/3619) led by SIG Node.

### Support for mounting images as volumes

> Support for using Open Container Initiative (OCI) images as volumes in Pods, introduced in v1.31, has graduated to beta. This feature allows users to specify an image reference as a volume in a Pod while reusing it as volume mount within containers. It opens up the possibility of packaging the volume data separately, and sharing them among containers in a Pod without including them in the main image, thereby reducing vulnerabilities and simplifying image creation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Support for using Open Container Initiative (OCI) images as volumes in Pods, introduced in v1.31, has graduated to beta. This feature allows users to specify an image reference as a volume in a Pod while reusing it as a volume mount within containers. It opens up the possibility of packaging the volume data separately, and sharing them among containers in a Pod without including them in the main image, thereby reducing vulnerabilities and simplifying image creation.
```

by enabling developers to specify validation constraints declaratively, reducing manual coding errors
and ensuring consistency across the codebase.

This work was done as part of [KEP-5073: Declarative Validation Of Kubernetes Native Types With validation-gen](https://kep.k8s.io/5073) led by SIG API Machinery.

## New features in Alpha

*This is a selection of some of the improvements that are now alpha following the v1.33 release.*

### Configurable tolerance for HorizontalPodAutoscalers

This feature introduces configurable tolerance for HorizontalPodAutoscalers, which dampens scaling reactions to small metric variations.

This work was done as a part of [KEP-4951: Configurable tolerance for Horizontal Pod Autoscalers](https://kep.k8s.io/4951) led by SIG Autoscaling.

### Configurable container restart delay

Introduced as alpha1 in v1.32, this feature provides a set of kubelet-level configurations to fine-tune how CrashLoopBackOff is handled.

This work was done as part of [KEP-4603: Tune CrashLoopBackOff](https://kep.k8s.io/4603) led by SIG Node.

### Custom container stop signals

> Before Kubernetes v1.33, stop signals could only be set in container image definitions (for example, via the `StopSignal` configuration field in the image metatadata).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before Kubernetes v1.33, stop signals could only be set in container image definitions (for example, via the `StopSignal` configuration field in the image metadata).
```

Author: I even had spell check on while making the final edits... I don't know how I didn't catch this 😅

This work was done as part of [KEP-2625: node: cpumanager: add options to reject non SMT-aligned workload](https://kep.k8s.io/2625) led by SIG Node.

### Defining Pod affinity or anti-affinity using `matchLabelKeys` and `mismatchLabelKeys`

Fields `matchLabelKeys` and `mismatchLabelKeys` are available in within the `affinityTerm` field of a Pod,
enabling users to finely control the scope where Pods are expected to co-exist (Affinity) or not (AntiAffinity).
These newly stable options complement the existing `labelSelector` mechanism.
The affinity fields facilitate enhanced scheduling for versatile rolling updates, as well as
isolation of services managed by tools or controllers based on global configurations.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3633: Introduce MatchLabelKeys to Pod Affinity and Pod Anti Affinity](https://kep.k8s.io/3633) led by SIG Scheduling.

> ### Considering taints and tolerations when calculating Pod topology sread skew

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### Considering taints and tolerations when calculating Pod topology spread skew
```

* [Always Honor PersistentVolume Reclaim Policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2644)
* [nftables kube-proxy backend](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3866)
* [Deprecate status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion field](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4004)
* [Add subresource support to kubectl](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2590)
* [Backoff Limit Per Index For Indexed Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3850)
* [Job success/completion policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3998)
* [Sidecar Containers](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/753)
* [CRD Validation Ratcheting](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4008)
* [node: cpumanager: add options to reject non SMT-aligned workload](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2625)
* [Traffic Distribution for Services](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4444)
* [Recursive Read-only (RRO) mounts](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3857)

### Deprecations and removals

> As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones to improve the project's overall health. See the Kubernetes [deprecation and removal policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for more details on this process. Many of these deprecations and removals were announced in the [Deprecations and Removals blog post](/blog/2025/03/26/kubernetes-v1-33-upcoming-changes/).

Reviewer 7: Can you please add the removal of GitRepo in-tree volume driver?
https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/2734#discussioncomment-12603586

Author: Thanks for the catch, this should have been caught earlier... I have included a new section with 2fac1ac6ea. 
@xing-yang Would you be able to check if the wording is accurate?

Reviewer 7: Looks good.  Thanks!

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.33: TBC'
date: 2025-04-23T10:30:00-08:00
draft: true
slug: kubernetes-v1-33-release
author: >
  [Kubernetes v1.33 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.33/release-team.md)
---

**Editors:** Agustina Barbetta, Aakanksha Bhende, Udi Hofesh, Ryota Sawada, Sneha Yadav

Similar to previous releases, the release of Kubernetes v1.33 introduces new stable, beta, and alpha features. The consistent delivery of high-quality releases underscores the strength of our development cycle and the vibrant support from our community.

> This release consists of 64 enhancements. Of those enhancements, 18 have graduated to Stable, 20 are entering Beta, and 24 have entered in Alpha.

Reviewer 8: I think the number 64 is "wrong" but I see what happened, in the enhancement boards you can see 64 items but we probably should communicate 62 to match the count.

18+20+24 = 62 enhancement (+ 2 deprecations)

Or we add here that 2 of those are deprections.

Author: Ah good catch, thanks! It's probably better to include deprecations as a part of enhancements here, will add that in 👍

Author: Given there were 1 deprecation and 1 withdrawal, I included those and mentioned "2 deprecated or withdrawn" at the end.
912b638429

## Spotlight on key updates

Kubernetes v1.33 is packed with new features and improvements. Here are a few select updates the Release team would like to highlight!

### Stable: Sidecar containers

The sidecar pattern involves deploying separate auxiliary container(s) to handle extra capabilities in areas such as networking, logging, and metrics gathering. Sidecar containers graduate to stable in v1.33.

Kubernetes implements sidecars as a special class of init containers with `restartPolicy: Always`, ensuring that sidecars start before application containers, remain running throughout the pod's lifecycle, and terminate automatically after the main containers exit.

Additionally, sidecars can utilize probes (startup, readiness, liveness) to signal their operational state, and their Out-Of-Memory (OOM) score adjustments are aligned with primary containers to prevent premature termination under memory pressure.

To learn more, read [Sidecar Containers](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/).

This work was done as part of [KEP-753: Sidecar Containers](https://kep.k8s.io/753) led by SIG Node.

### Beta: In-place resource resize for vertical scaling of Pods

> When provisioning a Pod, you can use various resources such as Deployment, StatefulSet, etc. Scalability requirements may need horizontal scaling by updating the Pod replica count, or vertical scaling by updating resources allocated to Pod’s container(s). Before this enhancement, container resources defined in a Pod's `spec` were immutable, and updating any of these details within a Pod template would trigger Pod replacement.

Reviewer 9: "resources such as Deployment, StatefulSet" is a bit confusing when we're talking later about _resizing_ resources... maybe refer to these as workloads, and explicitly say the resources being resized are things like CPU and memory resources. Something like this:

> Workloads can be defined using APIs like Deployment, StatefulSet, etc. These describe the template for the Pods that should run, including memory and CPU resources, as well as the replica count of the number of Pods that should run. Workloads can be scaled horizontally by updating the Pod replica count, or vertically by updating the resources required in the Pods container(s). Before this enhancement, container resources defined in a Pod's `spec` were immutable, and updating any of these details within a Pod template would trigger Pod replacement.

Author: That's absolutely a good point, and I like the differentiation with the workloads / resources. I'll take your suggestion!

Author: This is updated with 3f14db5981

But what if you could dynamically update the resource configuration for your existing Pods without restarting them?

The [KEP-1287](https://kep.k8s.io/1287) is precisely to allow such in-place Pod updates. It was released as alpha in v1.27, and has graduated to beta in v1.33. This opens up various possibilities of vertical scale-up for stateful processes without any downtime,
seamless scale-down when the traffic is low, and even allocating larger resources during startup,
which can then be reduced once the initial setup is complete.

This work was done as part of [KEP-1287: In-Place Update of Pod Resources](https://kep.k8s.io/1287) led by SIG Node and SIG Autoscaling.

### Alpha: New configuration option for kubectl with `.kuberc` for user preferences

> `kubectl` introduces an entirely new opt-in configuration file `.kuberc` for user preferences, allowing users to manage cluster credentials and host information separately. During the alpha stage, users can enable this by setting the environment variable of `KUBECTL_KUBERC=true`, along with the `.kuberc` configuration file, which is under `~/.kube/kuberc` by default. This can also be run by using the argument of `--kuberc`, for example: `kubectl --kuberc /var/kube/rc`.

Author: This is indeed misleading, it was meant that those credentials would live in a separate file (and _not_ .kuberc). We could clarify mentioning credentials to stay in `.kube/config`

> `kubectl` introduces an entirely new opt-in configuration file `.kuberc` for user preferences, allowing users to manage cluster credentials and host information separately. During the alpha stage, users can enable this by setting the environment variable of `KUBECTL_KUBERC=true`, along with the `.kuberc` configuration file, which is under `~/.kube/kuberc` by default. This can also be run by using the argument of `--kuberc`, for example: `kubectl --kuberc /var/kube/rc`.

Author: I have updated this section completely with the following commit: d1c55cfe8a

The emphasis is on how this new config is different from kubeconfig, and also providing a quick example use case of defaulting to server side apply

This work was done as part of [KEP-4639: VolumeSource: OCI Artifact and/or Image](https://kep.k8s.io/4639) led by SIG Node and SIG Storage.

### Support for user namespaces within Linux Pods

One of the oldest open KEPs as of writing is [KEP-127](https://kep.k8s.io/127), Pod security improvement by using Linux [User namespaces](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/user-namespaces/) for Pods. This KEP was first opened in late 2016, and after multiple iterations, had its alpha release in v1.25, initial beta in v1.30 (where it was disabled by default), and is now part of v1.33, where the feature is available by default.

This support will not impact existing Pods unless you manually specify `pod.spec.hostUsers` to opt in. As highlighted in the [v1.30 sneak peek blog](/blog/2024/03/12/kubernetes-1-30-upcoming-changes/), this is an important milestone for mitigating vulnerabilities.

This work was done as part of [KEP-127: Support User Namespaces in pods](https://kep.k8s.io/127) led by SIG Node.

### Pod `procMount` option

> The `procMount` option, introduced as alpha in v1.12, and off-by-default beta in v1.31, has moved to an on-by-default beta in v1.33. This enhancement improves Pod isolation by allowing users to fine-tune access to the `/proc` filesystem. Specifically, it adds a field to the Pod `securityContext` that lets you override the default behavior of masking and marking certain `/proc` paths as read-only. This is particularly useful for scenarios where users want to run unprivileged containers inside the Kubernetes Pod using user namespaces. Normally, the container runtime (via the CRI implementation) starts the outer container with strict `/proc` mount settings. However, to successfully run nested containers with an unprivileged Pod, users need a mechanism to relax those defaults, and this feature provides exactly that.

Reviewer 9: This should probably note that using `procMount: Unmasked` *requires* pods to run with user namespaces by setting `hostUsers: false`

Author: This does mention about the use of user namespace, but only in the context of running "unprivileged containers inside the Kubernetes Pod using user namespaces". Do you think we should have a clear example of those two flags being used in combination? Or is `procMount` helpful in other contexts, and the use of user namespace may be optional?

As I'm not versed in this area, I'm finding it difficult to fully understand this myself. Perhaps that's a sign that this could do a bit of wording update, do you have some suggestion?

Author: I am going ahead with resolving this one -- I think this blog piece would help introducing the change, and more details can be found elsewhere including doc / KEP.

This work was done as part of [KEP-2902: Add CPUManager policy option to distribute CPUs across NUMA nodes instead of packing them](https://kep.k8s.io/2902) led by SIG Node.

### Zero-second sleeps for container PreStop hooks

Kubernetes 1.29 introduced a Sleep action for the `preStop` lifecycle hook in Pods, allowing containers to pause for a specified duration before termination.
This provides a straightforward method to delay container shutdown, facilitating tasks such as connection draining or cleanup operations.

The Sleep action in a `preStop` hook can now accept a zero-second duration as a beta feature. This allows defining a no-op `preStop` hook, which is useful when a `preStop` hook is required but no delay is desired.

This work was done as part of [KEP-3960: Introducing Sleep Action for PreStop Hook](https://kep.k8s.io/3960) and [KEP-4818: Allow zero value for Sleep Action of PreStop Hook](https://kep.k8s.io/4818) led by SIG Node.

> ### Declarative validation of Kubernetes-native types

Reviewer 9: Who is the audience for this blog? While this feature is certainly impactful and helpful to Kubernetes *maintainers*, I'm not sure whether this will be interesting to Kubernetes *consumers*.

Author: Technically the audience could be many -- but surely the main target is Kubernetes users / consumers. I do think having a few items targeting maintainers (or future maintainers) is fine, but this could probably use some title update to clarify that. I adjusted a little with 006509a4c1

 This was originally [highlighted from SIG API Machinery](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/2734#discussioncomment-12632888), and was then questioned whether this is worth highlighting or not. If this seems to be too much of implementation detail, we could drop this section entirely.
CC'ing @deads2k and @jpbetz for their input as well 🙏

Author: As I can see this highlight being an important part of the release, I'm resolving this (and there is nothing wrong about having one more section, as we already have 30+ highlights)

The feature gate in kubelet and in-tree plugin code is planned to be removed in the v1.39 release.

You can find more in [KEP-5040: Remove gitRepo volume driver](https://kep.k8s.io/5040).

#### Removal of host network support for Windows pods

Windows Pod networking aimed to achieve feature parity with Linux and provide better cluster density by allowing containers to use the Node’s networking namespace.
The original implementation landed as alpha with v1.26, but because it faced unexpected containerd behaviours and alternative solutions were available, the Kubernetes project has decided to withdraw the associated
KEP. Support was fully removed in v1.33.

Please note that this does not affect [HostProcess containers](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/create-hostprocess-pod/), which provides host network as well as host level access. The KEP withdrawn in v1.33 was about providing the host network only, which was never stable due to technical limitations with Windows networking logic.

You can find more in [KEP-3503: Host network support for Windows pods](https://kep.k8s.io/3503).

> ### Release notes

Reviewer 8: Adjust heading `### Release notes` -> `## Release notes`

Author: Thanks, this is done with 7545e9115f

Check out the full details of the Kubernetes v1.33 release in our [release notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md).

> ### Availability

Reviewer 8: Adjust heading `### Availability` -> `## Availability`

Author: Thanks, this is done with 7545e9115f

Kubernetes v1.33 is available for download on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.33.0) or on the [Kubernetes download page](/releases/download/).

To get started with Kubernetes, check out these [interactive tutorials](/docs/tutorials/) or run local Kubernetes clusters using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/). You can also easily install v1.33 using [kubeadm](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/).

> ### Release team

Reviewer 8: Adjust heading `### Release Team` -> `## Release Team`

Author: Thanks, this is done with 7545e9115f

We would like to thank the entire [release team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.XX/release-team.md) for the hours spent hard at work to deliver the Kubernetes v1.33 release to our community. The Release Team's membership ranges from first-time shadows to returning team leads with experience forged over several release cycles. There was a new team structure adopted in this release cycle, which was to combine Release Notes and Docs subteams into a unified subteam of Docs. Thanks to the meticulous effort in organizing the relevant information and resources from the new Docs team, both Release Notes and Docs tracking have seen a smooth and successful transition. Finally, a very special thanks goes out to our release lead, Nina Polshakova, for her support throughout a successful release cycle, her advocacy, her efforts to ensure that everyone could contribute effectively, and her challenges to improve the release process.

> ### Project Velocity

Reviewer 8: Adjust heading `### Project Velocity` -> `## Project Velocity`

Author: Thanks, this is done with 7545e9115f

Note that, “contribution” counts when someone makes a commit, code review, comment, creates an issue or PR, reviews a PR (including blogs and documentation) or comments on issues and PRs. If you are interested in contributing, visit [Getting Started](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/#getting-started) on our contributor website.

[Check out DevStats](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/11/companies-contributing-in-repository-groups?orgId=1&var-period=m&var-repogroup_name=All) to learn more about the overall velocity of the Kubernetes project and community.

> ### Event Update

Reviewer 8: Adjust heading `### Event Update` -> `## Event Update`

Author: Thanks, this is done with 7545e9115f

- [**KCD - Kubernetes Community Days: Nigeria, Africa**](https://www.cncf.io/kcds/): June 19, 2025 | Nigeria, Africa

**July 2025**

- [**KCD - Kubernetes Community Days: Utrecht**](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-kcd-netherlands-presents-kcd-utrecht-2025/): July 4, 2025 | Utrecht, Netherlands
- [**KCD - Kubernetes Community Days: Taipei**](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-kcd-taiwan-presents-kcd-taipei-2025/): July 5, 2025 | Taipei, Taiwan
- [**KCD - Kubernetes Community Days: Lima, Peru**](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-kcd-lima-peru-presents-kcd-lima-peru-2025/): July 19, 2025 | Lima, Peru

**August 2025**

- [**KubeCon + CloudNativeCon India 2025**](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-india-2025/): August 6-7, 2025 | Hyderabad, India
- [**KCD - Kubernetes Community Days: Colombia**](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-kcd-colombia-presents-kcd-colombia-2025/): August 29, 2025 | Bogotá, Colombia

You can find the latest KCD details [here](https://www.cncf.io/kcds/).

> ### Upcoming Release Webinar

Reviewer 8: Adjust heading `### Upcoming Release Webinar` -> `## Upcoming Release Webinar`

[TODO]

<RELEASE WEBINAR WILL TAKE PLACE NORMALLY 30 DAYS AFTER RELEASE, ALIGN WITH CNCF TO HIGHLIGHT THE WEBINAR>

> ### Get Involved

Reviewer 8: Adjust heading `### Get Involved` -> `## Get Involved`

Author: Thanks, this is done with 7545e9115f

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.33: TBC'

> date: 2025-04-23T10:30:00-08:00

Reviewer 10: Not sure if this value format works because we used to use `date` rather than `datetime` format.

Author: Thanks! I think this could do a bit of clarifying in the guideline doc, but my understanding is that the included timestamp helps with the build setup, and this was how it was done with the mid cycle blog as well
https://github.com/rytswd/k8s-website/blame/20874d914430fbdfa4152967aa80813a427a04a2/content/en/blog/_posts/2025-03-26-kubernetes-1.33-sneak-peek.md#L4

You can find more in [KEP-3503: Host network support for Windows pods](https://kep.k8s.io/3503).

## Release notes

Check out the full details of the Kubernetes v1.33 release in our [release notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.33.md).

## Availability

Kubernetes v1.33 is available for download on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.33.0) or on the [Kubernetes download page](/releases/download/).

To get started with Kubernetes, check out these [interactive tutorials](/docs/tutorials/) or run local Kubernetes clusters using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/). You can also easily install v1.33 using [kubeadm](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/).

## Release team

Kubernetes is only possible with the support, commitment, and hard work of its community. Each release team is made up of dedicated community volunteers who work together to build the many pieces that make up the Kubernetes releases you rely on. This requires the specialized skills of people from all corners of our community, from the code itself to its documentation and project management.

> We would like to thank the entire [release team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.XX/release-team.md) for the hours spent hard at work to deliver the Kubernetes v1.33 release to our community. The Release Team's membership ranges from first-time shadows to returning team leads with experience forged over several release cycles. There was a new team structure adopted in this release cycle, which was to combine Release Notes and Docs subteams into a unified subteam of Docs. Thanks to the meticulous effort in organizing the relevant information and resources from the new Docs team, both Release Notes and Docs tracking have seen a smooth and successful transition. Finally, a very special thanks goes out to our release lead, Nina Polshakova, for her support throughout a successful release cycle, her advocacy, her efforts to ensure that everyone could contribute effectively, and her challenges to improve the release process.

Reviewer 5: The link to the release team file needs minor correction.

```suggestion
We would like to thank the entire [release team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.33/release-team.md) for the hours spent hard at work to deliver the Kubernetes v1.33 release to our community. The Release Team's membership ranges from first-time shadows to returning team leads with experience forged over several release cycles. There was a new team structure adopted in this release cycle, which was to combine Release Notes and Docs subteams into a unified subteam of Docs. Thanks to the meticulous effort in organizing the relevant information and resources from the new Docs team, both Release Notes and Docs tracking have seen a smooth and successful transition. Finally, a very special thanks goes out to our release lead, Nina Polshakova, for her support throughout a successful release cycle, her advocacy, her efforts to ensure that everyone could contribute effectively, and her challenges to improve the release process.
```

Author: Oh thank you for the catch!

There have been many of these missed updates... I will work on making a script to scan all the placeholders as a followup item!

## Project Velocity

> The CNCF K8s [DevStats](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/11/companies-contributing-in-repository-groups?orgId=1&var-period=m&var-repogroup_name=All) project aggregates several interesting data points related to the velocity of Kubernetes and various sub-projects. This includes everything from individual contributions to the number of companies contributing and illustrates the depth and breadth of effort that goes into evolving this ecosystem.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
The CNCF K8s [DevStats](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/11/companies-contributing-in-repository-groups?orgId=1&var-period=m&var-repogroup_name=All) project aggregates several interesting data points related to the velocity of Kubernetes and various subprojects. This includes everything from individual contributions, to the number of companies contributing, and illustrates the depth and breadth of effort that goes into evolving this ecosystem.
```

Reviewer 11: subproject isn't a hyphenated word in the k8s ecosystem

Note that, “contribution” counts when someone makes a commit, code review, comment, creates an issue or PR, reviews a PR (including blogs and documentation) or comments on issues and PRs. If you are interested in contributing, visit [Getting Started](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/#getting-started) on our contributor website.

[Check out DevStats](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/11/companies-contributing-in-repository-groups?orgId=1&var-period=m&var-repogroup_name=All) to learn more about the overall velocity of the Kubernetes project and community.

## Event Update

> Explore upcoming Kubernetes and cloud-native events, including KubeCon, KCD, and other notable conferences worldwide. Stay informed and get involved with the Kubernetes community!

Author: Thanks for the catch! I think other places do not use hyphenated form, and this came from some old template. I'll make sure the handbook and template get updated to reflect this fix for future blogs!

This work was done as part of [KEP-3094: Take taints/tolerations into consideration when calculating PodTopologySpread skew](https://kep.k8s.io/3094) led by SIG Scheduling.

### Volume populators

After being released as beta in v1.24, _volume populators_ have graduated to GA in v1.33. This newly stable feature provides a way to allow users to pre-populate volumes with data from various sources, and not
just from PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) clones or volume snapshots.
The mechanism relies on the `dataSourceRef` field within a PersistentVolumeClaim. This field offers more flexibility than the existing `dataSource` field, and allows for custom resources to be used as data sources.

A special controller, `volume-data-source-validator`, validates these data source references, alongside a newly stable CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) for an API kind named VolumePopulator.
The VolumePopulator API allows volume populator controllers to register the types of data sources they support. You need to set up your cluster with the appropriate CRD in order to use volume populators.

This work was done as part of [KEP-1495: Generic data populators](https://kep.k8s.io/1495) led by SIG Storage.

> ### Always Honor PersistentVolume Reclaim Policy

Author: Oh thanks I thought I fixed all, will address this before merge!

> ### Always Honor PersistentVolume Reclaim Policy

Author: This is fixed with 472dd6ff91
